README.md, before:

# Algorithms & Data Structures

![GitHub Workflow Results - Tests & Linting](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/actions/workflows/run_tests_linting.yml/badge.svg) ![LC Problems](https://img.shields.io/badge/LC%20Problems-33-blue)

<!-- # OF LC PROBLEMS IS HARD CODED IN THE BADGE. UPDATE AS NEEDED -->

<em>A collection of files created while learning algorithms & data structures and solving Leetcode problems</em>

All Leetcode problems include tests that can be run from within the solution file (using the PrintTests class from [class_print_tests.py](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/class_print_tests.py)) and automated tests using Pytest that are checked on each push to the repo. The files are also formatted using black with automated linting using flake8.

Next, I plan to add similar automated tests for the algorithm files and create a TOC of them.

## Leetcode Problem Solutions

| Count | LC # | Description | Difficulty |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 | [Two Sum](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0001_solution.py) | Easy |
| 2 | 3 | [Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0003_solution.py) | Medium |
| 3 | 20 | [Valid Parentheses](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0020_solution.py) | Easy |
| 4 | 21 | [Merge Two Sorted Linked Lists](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0021_solution.py) | Easy |
| 5 | 34 | [Find First and Last Position of Element in Sorted Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0034_solution.py) | Medium |
| 6 | 46 | [Permutations](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0046_solution.py) | Medium |
| 7 | 53 | [Maximum Subarray](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0053_solution.py) | Medium |
| 8 | 70 | [Climbing Stairs](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0070_solution.py) | Easy |
| 9 | 77 | [Combinations](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0077_solution.py) | Medium |
| 10 | 120 | [Triangle](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0120_solution.py) | Medium |
| 11 | 141 | [Linked List Cycle](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0141_solution.py) | Easy |
| 12 | 148 | [Sort List](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0148_solution.py) | Medium |
| 13 | 189 | [Rotate Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0189_solution.py) | Medium |
| 14 | 198 | [House Robber](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0198_solution.py) | Medium |
| 15 | 200 | [Number of Islands](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0200_solution.py) | Medium |
| 16 | 203 | [Remove Linked List Elements](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0203_solution.py) | Easy |
| 17 | 215 | [Kth Largest Element in an Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0215_solution.py) | Medium |
| 18 | 283 | [Move Zeroes](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0283_solution.py) | Easy |
| 19 | 286 | [Walls and Gates](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0286_solution.py) | Medium |
| 20 | 344 | [Reverse String](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0344_solution.py) | Easy |
| 21 | 347 | [Top K Frequent Items](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0347_solution.py) | Medium |
| 22 | 542 | [01 Matrix](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0542_solution.py) | Medium |
| 23 | 617 | [Merge Two Binary Trees](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0617_solution.py) | Easy |
| 24 | 695 | [Max Area of Island](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0695_solution.py) | Medium |
| 25 | 704 | [Binary Search](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0704_solution.py) | Easy |
| 26 | 707 | [Design Linked List](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0707_solution.py) | Medium |
| 27 | 733 | [Flood Fill](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0733_solution.py) | Easy |
| 28 | 784 | [Letter Case Permutation](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0784_solution.py) | Easy |
| 29 | 931 | [Minimum Falling Path Sum](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0931_solution.py) | Medium |
| 30 | 977 | [Squares of a Sorted Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0977_solution.py) | Easy |
| 31 | 994 | [Rotting Oranges](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0994_solution.py) | Medium |
| 32 | 1006 | [Clumsy Factorial](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p1006_solution.py) | Medium |
| 33 | 1029 | [Two City Scheduling](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p1029_solution.py) | Medium |

Commit message:

add data structures TOC and section for algos

README.md, after:

# Algorithms & Data Structures

![GitHub Workflow Results - Tests & Linting](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/actions/workflows/run_tests_linting.yml/badge.svg) ![LC Problems](https://img.shields.io/badge/LC%20Problems-33-orange) ![Data Structures](https://img.shields.io/badge/Data%20Structures-3-blue)

<!-- # OF LC PROBLEMS IS HARD CODED IN THE BADGE. UPDATE AS NEEDED -->

<em>A collection of files created while learning algorithms & data structures and solving Leetcode problems</em>

All Leetcode problems include tests that can be run from within the solution file (using the PrintTests class from [class_print_tests.py](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/class_print_tests.py)) and automated tests using Pytest that are checked on each push to the repo. The files are also formatted using black with automated linting using flake8.

## Leetcode Problem Solutions

| Count | LC # | Description | Difficulty |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 | [Two Sum](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0001_solution.py) | Easy |
| 2 | 3 | [Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0003_solution.py) | Medium |
| 3 | 20 | [Valid Parentheses](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0020_solution.py) | Easy |
| 4 | 21 | [Merge Two Sorted Linked Lists](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0021_solution.py) | Easy |
| 5 | 34 | [Find First and Last Position of Element in Sorted Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0034_solution.py) | Medium |
| 6 | 46 | [Permutations](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0046_solution.py) | Medium |
| 7 | 53 | [Maximum Subarray](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0053_solution.py) | Medium |
| 8 | 70 | [Climbing Stairs](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0070_solution.py) | Easy |
| 9 | 77 | [Combinations](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0077_solution.py) | Medium |
| 10 | 120 | [Triangle](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0120_solution.py) | Medium |
| 11 | 141 | [Linked List Cycle](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0141_solution.py) | Easy |
| 12 | 148 | [Sort List](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0148_solution.py) | Medium |
| 13 | 189 | [Rotate Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0189_solution.py) | Medium |
| 14 | 198 | [House Robber](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0198_solution.py) | Medium |
| 15 | 200 | [Number of Islands](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0200_solution.py) | Medium |
| 16 | 203 | [Remove Linked List Elements](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0203_solution.py) | Easy |
| 17 | 215 | [Kth Largest Element in an Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0215_solution.py) | Medium |
| 18 | 283 | [Move Zeroes](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0283_solution.py) | Easy |
| 19 | 286 | [Walls and Gates](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0286_solution.py) | Medium |
| 20 | 344 | [Reverse String](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0344_solution.py) | Easy |
| 21 | 347 | [Top K Frequent Items](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0347_solution.py) | Medium |
| 22 | 542 | [01 Matrix](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0542_solution.py) | Medium |
| 23 | 617 | [Merge Two Binary Trees](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0617_solution.py) | Easy |
| 24 | 695 | [Max Area of Island](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0695_solution.py) | Medium |
| 25 | 704 | [Binary Search](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0704_solution.py) | Easy |
| 26 | 707 | [Design Linked List](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0707_solution.py) | Medium |
| 27 | 733 | [Flood Fill](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0733_solution.py) | Easy |
| 28 | 784 | [Letter Case Permutation](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0784_solution.py) | Easy |
| 29 | 931 | [Minimum Falling Path Sum](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0931_solution.py) | Medium |
| 30 | 977 | [Squares of a Sorted Array](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0977_solution.py) | Easy |
| 31 | 994 | [Rotting Oranges](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p0994_solution.py) | Medium |
| 32 | 1006 | [Clumsy Factorial](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p1006_solution.py) | Medium |
| 33 | 1029 | [Two City Scheduling](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/p1029_solution.py) | Medium |


## Data Structure Implementations

I created my own implementations of a few data structures, either out of personal interest or convenience in testing Leetcode solutions.

Each file contains:

- Class representing my implementation of the data structure
- Demonstrations of the class and its methods/related functions, meant to be run directly in the file

| Count | Data Structure |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | [Linked List](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/class_linked_list.py) |
| 2 | [Binary Tree](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/class_binary_tree.py) |
| 3 | [Heap](https://github.com/andrewt110216/algorithms-and-data-structures/blob/main/leetcode/class_heap.py) |

## Algorithms

The 'algorithms' folder contains an assortment of files, such as:

- implementations of traditional algorithms (e.g. sorting, searching, etc.)
- solutions to specific assignments from my online classes or YouTube series
- any other algorithm-adjacent topics that caught my interest at one time or another

Next, I plan to add similar automated tests for the algorithm files, and organize them here with a TOC.
